[exciting opening theme music plays]
[heavy metal music plays]
What…
[gasping in shock]
[Baki] What is that?!
What is he doing?!
He-- He's rolled himself up into a ball!
[Bob] I was stunned.
A human being had transformed himself
into a perfect sphere.
It was like that one animal,
you know what I mean?
What is it called? An armadillo!
Yeah! It was just like that.
Partly because of the job that I have,
I'm pretty familiar with martial arts.
So I know just how amazing
this technique is.
I mean, if you can
even call it a technique.
Many moves in martial arts
make use of the joints.
In other words, the angles of the body.
The human body is full of angles.
But then there's this technique,
which is the opposite of angular.
-[grunts in surprise]
-It certainly surprised Baki.
You could tell
just by looking at his face.
When someone turns into a ball
right in front of you,
it does make you think twice.
But, he is the child of a demon,
after all, so…
-[Baki chuckles]
-[whooshes, thuds]
[Bob] A jumping roundhouse kick!
Just what you'd expect him to use
since it's so powerful.
-But--
-Huh?
[gasping in surprise]
[Bob] He just bounced right off!
[gasps]
It was completely unexpected,
so you could tell he was confused,
but I actually had
some idea of why it happened.
One time, I was attending to
Mr. Oliva during a dinner.
He had downed several bottles of wine,
so he was in pretty high spirits.
And then, he showed us all
something very interesting.
Now, watch this.
[muscles straining]
His flexed a muscle,
and it seemed to move across his body!
It reached his shoulder,
went behind his head,
and then continued on to his opposite arm.
Of course, it was just a trick.
By flexing in sequence,
it made it look like one muscle
was traveling around his body.
It was an example
of extreme muscle control.
He can do it simultaneously
in different parts of his body too.
In other words,
he can focus his strength
wherever he chooses.
[dramatic sting]
And he used that ability
to make Baki bounce off him.
He deflected Baki's incoming power
with his own power from the inside.
And that's why he didn't roll back.
I just remembered.
I thought it felt familiar.
I've seen this technique before.
[dramatic music plays]
It was against Kureha Shinogi.
He did the same thing.
The muscle mass on you
is so different I didn't recognize it.
But, it's the same.
And so is the way to defeat it.
[Oliva] Try it, then.
Go ahead and give it a shot.
Try the technique that saved you before.
[Baki] Hmm?
Ah, so you heard about that.
-[jingling sound]
-Well, after all,
if it worked the first time,
don't see any reason
why it won't work again.
[music continues]
[Bob] Rigid body technique.
When I was in the police academy,
a teacher who weighed 130 pounds
basically performed a miracle!
We brought in a bowling ball as a joke.
-He took it…
-[teacher grunts]
-[loud thud]
-[crumbles]
…and smashed it with one blow.
According to my teacher,
over a dozen joints in the human body
are used when a person
makes a chopping motion.
In other words,
there are multiple cushions,
or shock absorbers,
that can distribute the force of the blow.
But distributing force also limits
how much power you can put into a strike.
However, if those same shock absorbers
can be made more rigid,
then a human can become an iron ball.
Because I weigh just about 130 pounds,
I can become a 130-pound iron ball.
-[loud thud]
-[crumbles]
So splitting something
like a bowling ball is easy.
[students gasp]
However, when your opponent
is a moving target, such as a person,
it's a lot harder.
It's called Rigid Body technique.
I'm really only
an intermediate with it, at best.
[Baki grunts]
[metallic clang]
[gasping in surprise]
[Bob] That sound!
-It was just from one man hitting another!
-[steam hissing]
We stood there watching,
waiting to see what would happen.
It was five, ten--
No, maybe just three seconds,
-and then…
-[gasps]
-[groans]
-[wrist crunching]
[Baki groans in pain]
[Oliva's body cracking]
[Baki gasps]
-[whooshing]
-[Oliva growls, grunts]
[Bob] What?!
-[crunching]
-[Baki groaning loudly]
[Bob] This already unbelievable battle
took an even more unbelievable turn.
Oliva basically swallowed a whole person!
[unsettling organ music playing]
What in the world is this?!
Pac-Man?
And what the hell
is going on inside there?!
[gasps]
It was already beyond
what any of us could imagine,
but there was more!
-[Oliva grunts]
-[gasps]
[Bob] The fight kept going.
[Oliva raspily] Hmm.
[sighs] Ah.
[Bob] I remembered something
from when I was a kid.
[birds chirping]
I had just caught this dragonfly
that was using all its energy
to flutter around.
I didn't have anything to put it in,
so I just gently closed my hand around it.
I hurried home,
it was only a few blocks away.
[footsteps running]
But when I set it down,
it was unrecognizable,
all weak and battered.
Even though I'd carried it so carefully.
Because of losing that precious treasure,
I learned something.
I saw firsthand just how stressful it is
for a living creature to be enclosed.
In Baki's case, he was enclosed
under the full force of Mr. Oliva.
I could stomp on you right now,
or even tear you apart.
I could finish you off
in whatever way I want.
[crowd cheering]
If this were a fight in the ring,
with a sanctioning body
and regulations and all that,
then I'd be declared
the victor by knockout.
But then, sadly for you,
this place isn't anywhere near
as merciful as the ring.
There's no referee to stop it
when it gets too dangerous,
or, really, any rules at all.
So who then?
Who's gonna decide
when this fight is over?
You will, Baki.
With your own mouth,
you'll say, "Oh, please forgive me,"
or maybe even, "I'm so sorry."
Is that so?
I guess it'll never end, then.
'Cause you and I
have gotten ourselves in too deep.
[gasps softly]
[Baki] A referee can't be expected
to decide a match
between opponents
who hate each other this much.
One of us will have to die,
or, even worse, admit defeat.
There's simply no other way.
And if that's true,
then, Olly my boy, you just revealed
your biggest weakness to me.
What you just said shows
that your heart's deepest desire
is for me to willingly admit defeat.
Hmm?
I definitely appear to be
on the losing side,
but there's no way I'm gonna admit defeat.
[roars]
[both grunting]
[groans]
[Oliva grunts]
[Oliva snarls]
Not again?!
-[crunches]
-[Oliva grunts]
[Bob] The sphere's getting smaller!
-[thud, crunch]
-[gasps]
-[crunching]
-[growling in pain]
[thuds loudly]
Really shouldn't have underestimated me.
You can't use the same technique twice
against a top-tier opponent!
-[thud]
-[Oliva grunts]
[groans]
[growling in pain]
[tense music playing]
Why, you little punk!
Let me guess, I'll pay for that.
You bet you'll pay for that!
At this point,
what more can the two of us do?
[gasping in surprise]
Come on, man.
We can't just keep playing
this game of "secret weapons."
Is it even a fight if to win
we both have to use tricks?
Speak for yourself.
I don't need tricks to beat you.
What we're doing is nothing but a waste.
[growls]
[Baki] It just feels wrong.
This isn't the way
that I wanted to defeat Biscuit Oliva,
the strongest man in America.
[intense music building]
Let's trade punches.
[Oliva growls]
[music intensifies]
[Bob] I didn't understand
what Baki was saying.
I mean, the two of them
had already been trading punches.
Come on, face to face.
Plant our feet and just go at it properly.
[laughing]
[Bob] Oliva couldn't
do anything but laugh.
After all,
a boy 200 pounds lighter than him
just suggested
they stand there and duke it out.
[Oliva] You little punk!
[Bob] Just then…
-[Michael] No!
-Huh?
You can't fight him like that!
[Bob] It was Iron Michael,
the former professional
heavyweight boxing champion himself,
calling out a warning.
Or you're gonna get killed, Baki!
[Bob] He'd been in one
of the solitary confinement cells
that Oliva had torn through earlier.
Typically, in these situations,
we could shoot a prisoner
without warning, but…
[Michael] You don't get
what the weight difference means!
There's a good reason why
there are 17 weight classes in boxing!
[Bob] He was totally right.
No one could argue otherwise,
so we just listened.
For a middleweight like you,
trying to trade punches with Oliva
is practically suicide!
Even I'd never dare
to square up against him!
It would be insane! Don't do this!
Okay, okay, I get it.
I understand.
You're sayin' I should absolutely do it!
-[loud boom]
-[wall crumbling]
[mellow music plays]
[Bob] That was it.
There was no stopping them anymore…
[gasps in shock]
…not Iron Michael, not regulations.
-[gasping]
They were…
-Hmm!
-[epic music playing]
[Baki] Yeah!
…going to exchange what would probably be
the strongest punches
in the history of the world!
-[Baki grunts]
-[rumbling]
-[music continues]
-[wind gusts]
Huh?
It's getting close now.
The end.
[whooshing]
[thuds, cracks]
[both groan]
[Baki grunts]
-[whooshing]
-[Baki grunts loudly]
[music swelling]
[Bob] What was
that exchange of blows like?
Well, I'm sorry to say that I don't know.
Because none of who were there
could bear to watch.
It was just too overwhelming.
Later, I heard
that at the exact same time,
the outer fence was lined with vultures,
watching and waiting.
[vultures squawking]
[Baki] There's one thing that I'm sure of.
[groans]
Oliva won't be defeated…
…with technique…
-[Oliva growls, grunts]
-[grunts]
…or with knowledge.
No.
-Neither of those will win.
-[groans]
-[both yelling]
-That's not what defeating Oliva is about.
-[groans]
-He's got 200 pounds on me.
-[yells]
-[groans]
-It's gotta be strength.
-[Oliva gurgling]
Straight punches…
-[thudding]
-…straight to the front,
one after another.
[Baki grunts]
Relentless.
[Baki yelling]
-Just keep pushing him back.
-[Oliva groaning]
[dramatic string music playing]
Just keep pushing him through.
[Oliva groans]
-All the way to the far wall and beyond.
-[fighting continues]
[concrete crumbles]
-[Baki grunts]
-[concrete crumbles]
[Bob] Without anyone saying anything,
all three of us removed our hats.
Who knew that
these kinds of men even existed?
Who knew that this kind of fight
could actually happen?
Honorable, lofty, dignified.
It was enough to bring you to your knees.
[Oliva screams in frustration]
[Oliva] This mere boy,
who's even less than half my size,
is actually trying to push me back.
-[both grunting]
-[Oliva] No. He's doin' it!
This boy who's
over 200 pounds lighter than me,
he's pushing me back!
He's pushing America back!
[yelling]
-[squelches]
-[Baki groans]
[groaning weakly]
-[Baki grunts]
-[groans]
[wall cracking loudly]
[music swelling]
[yelling]
[groaning in anticipation]
-[whooshing]
-[Baki yells]
[concrete clattering]
[music swells, fades]
[groans weakly]
[thuds loudly]
[gasping in surprise]
[gasping]
[Baki] What an iconic moment.
[groans]
-[breathing weakly]
-I could barely lift my head.
But…
[gentle music playing]
…no one's in front of me anymore.
[groans]
[gasps]
[music fades]
Call the infirmary. Quickly!
Yes, sir!
[Oliva groans softly]
-[both] Huh?
-[gasping in surprise]
-[Oliva groans]
-[gasping]
[Oliva] Wha-- Huh?
[panting]
[all] Huh?!
[breathing heavily]
Maria, you…
[Maria panting]
[incredulously] Did you walk
all the way here?
You just lost, didn't you?
[Oliva] Yeah.
-[Maria] Then, let's go home.
-Huh?
I made it here,
but I'm exhausted, I can't walk any more.
What, do you plan on
having that boy carry me back?
-[Oliva] Hmm?
-Huh?
Uh-uh.
No, course not!
I wouldn't let anyone
take that right away from me.
You guys go tell the warden
I have an announcement
to make to all the inmates.
[guards] Hmm!
[bicycle rattling softly]
[inmates murmuring]
All right, some of you
with your ears to the ground
might have already heard the rumor.
Well, that rumor's true.
I just lost a fight against Baki Hanma.
[all murmuring in surprise]
And as a result,
I'm sorry to say
that I'm no longer deserving
of being called Number One
here in the Arizona State Prison.
[inmates gasping
and murmuring in surprise]
But the thing about that is,
I just can't stand it, no way in hell!
-[all murmuring]
-[old man chuckles]
[Oliva] So, what should I do?
That's simple enough.
If he's gone, then there's no problem.
-Warden…
-[warden gulps]
…go ahead and process him.
-Go on, release him.
Baki Hanma leaves here today.
[grunts in shock]
Uh-- Uh, but today?
I-- Trying to get that done
so quickly would be, uh--
[Oliva] You can handle
the paperwork later.
[groans] It's just…
[chuckles menacingly]
It's better than
4,000 prisoners escaping, isn't it?
[mellow guitar music playing]
[Baki] I was released pretty fast,
like, surprisingly, fast.
I didn't even have time to grab my socks.
I asked them to get me a bike, some food,
a bottle of water and even a little cash.
Biscuit Oliva, Mr. Unchained himself,
had a request of his own.
-Well, more like a demand.
-[blades whirring loudly]
A helicopter escort to the airport
to make sure I got on a plane and left.
Let it go!
[music fades]
[footsteps approaching]
He actually defeated Unchained
with sheer strength?
It appears he's been developing
faster than expected, doesn't it?
You may have laughed at it before,
but now it seems like Baki's idea
of shadowboxing
against an imaginary praying mantis
was actually a very good one, after all.
[intriguing music playing]
I'd say it's
just as magnificent an encounter
as your slaughter
of that gigantic African elephant.
And all of that doesn't even touch upon
the fact that he defeated
the strongest man in America,
or perhaps the whole world,
"Unchained" Oliva,
matching his sheer strength,
and even overcoming it.
That man was a monster
that even you had to respect.
You know, Ogre,
out of everyone in this whole world,
your biggest threat very well may be Baki.
Damn it, Strydum,
do you ever stop talking?
[grunts in surprise]
[hesitantly] Uh, I'm sorry.
Uh, let's change the subject.
Look at these things.
What's so amazing
is the fact that even if these
stuffed animals somehow came back to life,
they'd never be able to defeat you.
What do you think, Ogre,
would Baki be able
to defeat these creatures?
I doubt if he'd try in the first place,
but if he did, he could do it.
[Strydum] Hmm?
Uh… Um…
Well, uh…
What about this one?
That'd be more difficult.
And he wouldn't come out of it unscathed,
but I'd say if it were inside of a cage,
he could do it within half an hour.
[sputtering] Then, how about--
-Give it a rest already!
-[gasps]
We're not some kids in a toy store.
Maybe you need me to shut you up.
Uh, I'm very sorry.
Please don't take it the wrong way.
I got it. No more questions.
Don't worry, I won't ask again.
It's just that the two of you
are about to have the biggest
father and son fight in the world,
maybe in all of history.
And you're about to face off
against someone who's probably
the greatest opponent of your entire life.
I mean, you can't blame a guy
for being curious about that.
[sighs]
He's "the greatest opponent
of my entire life," huh?
If so, he'd be fulfilling
his duty as my son.
[Strydum] Hmm?
-[hesitantly] Uh, so, um…
-Hmm?
Uh, do you think
you'd be able to defeat this one?
[mysterious music playing]
You son of a…
Well? Could you?
Yujiro?
[Yujiro] Hmm!
[chuckles menacingly]
[dramatic music playing]
[narrator] The Nuclear Waste
Isolation Facility located in Colorado,
in the United States of America.
Or rather, located 700 meters beneath it,
in a rock salt bed.
A transparent salt deposit
a thousand meters thick,
formed 190 million years ago.
[gasps]
The excavators working there
had come to a halt
and were just standing still,
unable to believe
what they saw in front of their eyes.
[men gasping]
[narrator] This wasn't in their textbooks!
[dramatic music building]
[music ends]
[closing theme music plays]
Subtitle translation by: